# A Smart House Price Prediction System using Machine Learning Models
This contents all the code for House Price Prediction

## ABSTRACT: 

Machine Learning has a significant and quicker growth in this decade. Every day,
new Machine Learning applications and algorithms are being developed. It plays
a significant role in spam detection, recommendations, and medical treatments.
The present machine learning approach helps us improve public safety, security
alerts, and medical interventions. However, not much is being worked on in the
domain of the real estate sector, house prices continue to rise year after year
and the most difficult issue is managing or forecasting real estate values. As a
result, stakeholders, purchasers, and builders want to know which factors
influence housing prices. In this research paper, we address the prediction of
house prices generated by machine learning models. We would also investigate
the elements that influence the housing market such as location, territory, stock
market, and ageing and ultimately, develop a system to assist clients in
acquiring a property that meets their needs. This research intends to analyse,
evaluate, and construct an intelligent system deploying artificial intelligence in
the real estate sector using various Machine Learning models such as K-Means
Clustering, Random Forest Regressor, XGBoost, and Neural Networks with the
addition of areas of interest that people might look for most visited venues.
Moreover, this research will explore the differences between many advanced
models using both classic and advanced machine learning methodologies. In
addition, it will extensively examine a variety of ways in model implementation
and deliver an optimistic outcome for housing price prediction.

## IMPLEMENTATION :

This file contains 4 folders: 
1. **EDA**
2. **GUI**
3. **Hypothesis Testing**
4. **Model**
</br>
</br>
**1. EDA** <BR/>
The EDA ( Exploratory Data Analysis ) folder contains various visualizations performed on different datasets used in the project.
</br>
</br>
**2. GUI**
This folder contains all the codes for Graphical User Interface which was made with the help of Tkinter. Moreover it has files which are used(imported) in the main file for API calls.
</br>
</br>
**3. Hypothesis Testing**
This folder contains 6 hypothesis testing which were done , namely: </br>
      - Hypothesis I: Income of Householders vs House Price </br>
      - Hypothesis II: Inflation vs House Price </br>
      - Hypothesis III: Economy (GDP) vs House Price Index </br>
      - Hypothesis IV: Interest Rate (Bank Rate) vs House Price Index </br>
      - Hypothesis V: Outstanding Debt (Balance) vs House Prices </br>
      - Hypothesis VI: Stock Market vs House Price Index </br>
</br>
</br>
**4. Model**
This folder contains all the Machine Learning Models used. Various Hypertunning and feature scaling techniques were used.</br>
**Unsupervised Learning Model (K-Means Clustering)**</br>
**Sequential Neural Networks**</br>
**RandomForest Regressor**</br>
**XGBoost Regressor**</br>
**Sequential Neural Network**</br>
</br>
</br>
